Adding v1 files for applicationTemplate (#10458)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: api-reference/v1.0/api/applicationtemplate-instantiate.md

---
title: "applicationTemplate: instantiate"

> description: "Use this API to create a new applicationTemplate"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Add an instance of an application from the Azure AD application gallery."
```

localization_priority: Normal
author: "luleonpla"
ms.prod: "microsoft-identity-platform"
doc_type: "apiPageType"
---

# applicationTemplate: instantiate

Namespace: microsoft.graph

> Add an instance of an application from the Azure AD application gallery into your directory. To learn more about creating and configuring Azure AD gallery applications end-to-end visit [Automate SAML-based SSO app configuration with Microsoft Graph API](https://docs.microsoft.com/graph/application-saml-sso-configure-api).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an instance of an application from the Azure AD application gallery into your directory. For more information, see [Automate SAML-based SSO app configuration with Microsoft Graph API](https://docs.microsoft.com/graph/application-saml-sso-configure-api).
```

## Permissions

One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Permissions](/graph/permissions-reference).

| Permission type                        | Permissions (from least to most privileged) |
|:---------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------|
| Delegated (work or school account)     | Application.ReadWrite.All, Directory.ReadWrite.All |
| Delegated (personal Microsoft account) | Not supported. |
| Application                            | Application.ReadWrite.All, Directory.ReadWrite.All |

## HTTP request

<!-- { "blockType": "ignored" } -->

```http
POST /applicationTemplates/{id}/instantiate
```

## Request headers

| Name          | Description   |
|:--------------|:--------------|

> | Authorization | Bearer {code} |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Authorization | Bearer {token}. Required. |
```

## Request body

In the request body, provide a JSON object with the following parameters.

| Parameter    | Type        | Description |
|:-------------|:------------|:------------|

> |displayName|String|Custom name of the application|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|displayName|String| The custom name of the application.|
```

## Response

If successful, this method returns a `201 OK` response code and a new [applicationServicePrincipal](../resources/applicationserviceprincipal.md) object in the response body.

## Examples

The following example shows how to call this API.

### Request

The following is an example of the request.

> [!NOTE] 
> You can use this API to instantiate [non-gallery apps](/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/add-non-gallery-app). Use the following ID for **applicationTemplate**: `8adf8e6e-67b2-4cf2-a259-e3dc5476c621`.

> # [HTTP](#tab/http)

Reviewer: Remove line 63. It will be automatically added back with SDK snippets.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "request",
  "name": "applicationtemplate_instantiate"
}-->

```http

> POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applicationTemplates/{id}/instantiate

Reviewer: The example request should have a real looking id.

Content-type: application/json

{
  "displayName": "My custom name"
}
```

> ---

Reviewer: Remove line 77.

### Response

The following is an example of the response.

> [!NOTE]
> The response object shown here might be shortened for readability. All the properties will be returned from an actual call.

<!-- {
  "blockType": "response",
  "truncated": true,
  "@odata.type": "microsoft.graph.applicationServicePrincipal"
} -->

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 OK
Content-type: application/json

{
   "servicePrincipal": {
	  "accountEnabled": true,
	  "addIns": [
	    {

> 	      "id": "id-value",

Reviewer: The example should have real looking values.
